Star craft II with the correct proportions is great, the zerg have much more of that swarmy feeling, and it makes sense that the golden armada is actually impossible to beat, instead of being just a 100ish supply skytoss. 
Unfortunately, other than the fact that those missions have been played a million times and a million more, the engine struggles to suport such huge difference in units sizes, on top of that, it really makes no sense that a bunch of marines can just shoot down a battlecruiser.

A more reasonable approach would be an RTS where unit sizes are kept reasonably similar, but mainly because unit types are reasonably similar, like if it's a battle between two commanders of rebel forces, neither of them is gonna bring out battlecruisers.

Another thing I always found a bit too far fetched is resource managment: you mine them somewhere and can spend them on the other side of the map instantly? More than being irrealistic, which is very acceptable for a game, it makes cheesing waaaay too easy, which is extremely annoying in my opinion. Give the player some ways to move resources (trucks, trains, belts) and have them move them where they need to build a new structure or unit (by the way, why are people popping out of structures at the cost of minerals anyway?)

Breaking the triad of futuristic humans, slimy/ugly/swarmy things, and super advanced aliens with lasers is not easy, but I feel like any game that doesn't make a concrete effort at doing that is begging to be called a bad Star Craft clone. At least I have an half idea:

In engineering, modularity is a very common pattern, you don't design the whole thing from scratch, you design it with some standards in mind, so parts can be replaced, this goes from water pipes to CPU  sockets to heavy machine guns. Similarly, why don't "terrain" units give the player the choice for which armaments / similar they come equipped with? Of course in a very fast paced game like Star Craft it would be annoying and hard to balance, but in a more story focused / PvE game it might work, maybe having smaller things like a truck be able to mount only one heavy gun, while a bigger plane might have several weapon systems, flares, a radar and stuff.

For the zerg equivalent, I always wondered, why make them so evil? We've had Star Craft zerg, infernal host from that garbage of stormgate, we know they "have to" rely on strength in numbers, then why not make them something that is naturally really good at replicating? Sure animals aren't that bad, expecially if they were made by some god to be that way, but how about some probes sent out by an ancient, now lost civilization (or maybe by the advanced alien guys, who then lost control over them) to explore the universe? Their mission has always been to replicate and gather more data about everything, they aren't inherently evil, but they will destroy anything that gets in the way of gathering knowledge.

Advanced alien guys are probably the hardest to change, they need to have a good reason to not be completely overpowered, which would be the case since they should be the most technologically advanced, perhaps the planets they fight on are poorer in resources than the ones in the galaxy's sector they live in, making their blueprints harder to build? Or maybe the ways of war have long been forgotten, leaving them with a huge potential, but a very small.